# Introduction
Defomable objects are all around us and humans are able to naturally interact with them to accomplish various tasks that are not possible with rigid objects. There are several challenges that limit the use of robots for the manipulation of deformable objects. Unlike rigid objects, deformable objects exhibit significant flexibility and elasticity that make it difficult to model them effectively. Especially in the case of active manipulation, the configuration of the object is dynamic and is subject to change througout the manipulation. Without accurate perception algorithms for deformable objects, robots would struggle to find the current state of the deformable object and therefore cause large errors in manipulation. Moreover, we need perception methods that do not impose additional forces and moments on the deformable objects. In this project, we propose to use a vision based method to percieve a DSO that will be manipulated by a robot. 

We adopt topological representation of the rope as described in \cite{saha2007manipulation}. The type of intersection that the rope makes with itself determines the topology. let us consider a normalised lengthwise coordinate of the rope $\bar{x}\in[0,1]$ that goes from one end of the rope to the other. We project the shape of the rope to an arbitrary plane and traverse from $\bar{x} = 0 $ to $\bar{x} = 1$. Every time we encounter an intersection, we keep track of whether the current point goes above or below. If the intersection is above, it is denoted by $+1$ and if it is below, it is denoted by $-1$. Because all the intersections considered are self intersections, when we traverse from one end to the other end, we will encounter an even number of intersections. i.e. all intersections will be counted twice one as above and the other below. It will be more clear in the case of state 4 in fig \ref{fig:Knotting_chap6}. The intersection denoted as (1,6) is the first intersection that we encounter and in that case, it is crossing above. However, the same intersection is once again encountered as the 6th intersection this time it is crossing below. The topological representation of state 4 will then be given by:
\begin{equation}\label{state_4_rep}
    \mathcal{C}_4 = [1,-1,1,-1,1,-1,1,-1]
\end{equation}
This considers all 8 encounters of intersection, however, only half of them are important to us and the others should be truncated. This topological representation gives us a method to represent a knot without explicitly representing the shape of the rope that make up the rope. This property can be called as shape invariance, i.e. the topological representation will not change even when the shape changes without altering any of the intersections. This representation naturally allows us to split the knot tying problem into subproblems of moving from one topological state to another until it reaches the desired knot topology

